# Exploring Visual Studio Support For Xamarin

We're going to kick off the module by exploring in a bit more detail how the designer in Visual Studio works. So in this demo we are going to return to our application and see how the designer works and how we can use it to drag controls onto the design interface. The goal of this demo is showing you around in the designer in Visual Studio for Xamarin.Android, and the designer experience is pretty much the same that you're getting on Visual Studio on the Mac. So everything that you see here is fully applicable on that version of Visual Studio as well. So I have the activity_main.axml file open, that's the one that we used earlier, and because we're going to focus on the designer experience, I'm going to maximize the drag-and-drop designer part, and I'm going to do that by clicking here on this little arrow down here at the bottom, and then we get the full designer view. Now that I have the designer interface open, let me open my toolbox here. There we go, and just like any other toolbox, this will allow me to drag controls onto the designer interface. Now before I'll do that, let me jump back here to the source, and let me change this in a linear layout. By default, at the time of the creation of this course the Visual Studio template creates on PC a relative layout. Now for what we are going to do, a linear layout makes more sense. So I'm going to replace this with a linear layout. You'll understand more about these different types of layouts in the next module. So if I now change this in a LinearLayout, and I'm going to add one more property here that ensures that all the controls are stacked below one another, and that's the android:orientation, I'm going to set that to vertical. Alright, back to the designer interface. There we go. So I'm now going to drag a button onto the designer. As we can see, the designer interface turns green, which indicates that we can drop the control over here, and there's our button. As you can see, the button is now taking up all available space in the horizontal direction. If you take a look at the generated code, we see here that the button is specifying that its width is going to match its parent, and for the height, it's going to wrap its contents. Basically wrap_content says take as much you need to make sure that your content is visible, but also a minimum width and minimum height have been specified. Now that I have my button here on my screen, I'm going to show you around in the designer a bit more. At the top of the window you see a couple of buttons. These buttons can be used to change how we preview things here in the designer. For example, at this point I'm previewing things on a Nexus 4 device, but we can change here. We can for example say how would this interface look on a Nexus 6P for example? There you go. Now Visual Studio has re-rendered the interface, giving you an idea of how this would look on a Nexus 6P. You can also for example, take a look at how this would look on for example, a watch. This is your application running on a watch. Now that's not very useful for what we are going to do so I'm going to set it back to the Nexus 4 that we had in the beginning. I can also preview how my application would look on different versions of Android. Now you see here a couple of versions and these versions actually correspond with the versions of the SDK you have installed on your machine. If you want to preview your application on a different SDK, well then you simply need to install it. I'm going to skip the themes for now because we're going to look at themes later on. You can also take a look at what your application would look like if it's running in landscape mode. There's also a couple of buttons here that allow us to zoom in and zoom out. When I now select the button, we can change its properties. We already see for example the id here, but we can also do stuff like changing the color. For example, I may go to Style. We can select a different background brush here. Click here on a solid color brush, and then we can change the color. In the resulting XML, of course this color has been applied as well. It's of course not the goal of this demo to show you all these properties. I just want to show you how the designer works. Now when your application becomes more complex, another interesting window is the Document Outline. The Document Outline will give you a hierarchical view of your interface. For example, here we see that we have a linear layout and in there we have a button. Through the document outline you can indeed see the hierarchy and select controls directly from here, and as you can see on the right, the properties window is automatically updating according to the selected control I have here in the document outline window.
